Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 

    It's going to print Greetings, and then accept a user input based on the phrase "what is my favorite color"

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

    it printed "Greetings!" and then printed "What is my faavorite color"

What do you think the program did with what you typed?

    Nothing



Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 

    it will print the color I write back to me

What do you think the color = input() will do? 

    assign a variable "color" to the value that I input

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?

    Yes!



Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

    it has an if-else statement that will print a seperate string dependant on whether or not the input is "red"

What is happening on lines 11–14? 

    it is an if-else statement, so it will change the output dependant on the input

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 

    because they are in an if statement, seperating them from the rest of the code

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 

    the program returns the incorrect string, as python recognizes "red" and "Red" as seperate strings

What does this tell you about "color"?

    color considers uppercase characters distinct from lowercase characters



Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

    main4 will check for an answer of "Red" or "red", and print correct if either appears

What problem is this trying to solve? 

    even though humans can determine that "red" and "Red" refer to the same thing, Python recognizes them as distinct and different strings, meaning that the question,
    while technically true, will return false due to the logic of the language.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?

    Capitalizing other characters still returns the incorrect response



Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 

    it will check if the lowercase

What problem is it trying to solve? 

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?



Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

What is the purpose of line 11? 

Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

What is the purpose of “count”? 

What is happening on line 22? 

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?